Okay, so now let's talk
about enhanced networking.
So it is a way for you to get better networking performance
for your EC2 instances.
And so we have the type SR-VIO which gives you
higher bandwidth and higher PPS, so packets per second,
with a lower latency.
And this is something that can come up in the exam.
And you have two options for this.
The most recent one is called Elastic Network Adapter, ENA,
which gives you performance
of up to 100 gigabits per second.
Or option two is using an Intel VF
up to 10 gigabits per second, which is LEGACY.
So this EC2 enhanced networking, especially the ENA adapter,
works for newer generations EC2 instances
as we will see in the hands-on.
And then we have the Elastic Fabric Adapter, EFA,
which is an improved ENA dedicated for HPC,
which is high performance computing.
It only works on Linux.
The idea is that if you have a lot
of internal node communications that are tightly coupled,
because they live within the same cluster,
then they're going to get better network performance
talking with one another.
This is going to leverage a standard
called the MPI standard,
the leverage the Message Passing Interface standard.
And the idea is that Elastic Fabric Adaptor
is having a higher performance
because your EC2 instances are talking with one another.
And so it knows that
and it will bypass the underlying Linux OS
to provide even lower latency with a reliable transport.
So bottom line of this lecture is that
if you just want to have enhanced networking
for lower latency, look for ENA,
the Elastic Network Adaptor,
and if you have a HPC cluster,
then look for the EFA on top of it to improve performance.
Okay, so I'm not going to be able to demonstrate the EFA
but I can demonstrate ENA.
So take your instance and start it.
This is my first instance, a type t2.micro,
and I'm going to launch a second EC2 instance
but this time it's going to be newer generation.
So I'll choose still Amazon Linux 2,
still this architecture,
but instead of a t2.micro, which is older generation,
I'm going to look for a t3.micro,
which is a newer generation
and has a newer kind of networking.
And this will not be free tier eligible
unless you don't have availability
of t2.micro in your region,
and in that case t3.micro is going to be free tier eligible.
Next for key pair I will just choose
we have the DemoKeyPair,
and then for network settings I will edit this
and I will select an existing security group
which is my SSH security group.
The rest looks fine.
I'm going to launch that instance
and then I will get back to my view
with my two EC2 instances.
And so I'm going to connect to my first instance,
this one a t2.micro
and t2.micro is what I call
an older generation type of instances.
So how do we know this?
Well, we can have a look to see
if the ENA mod is installed by first
and this is going to be installed, by the way,
on every single Amazon Linux 2 installation,
so if I do modinfo ena, as we can see,
the ENA module is loaded onto my EC2 instance,
but doesn't mean it's going to be leveraged
because this instance needs to have some kind of capability
and t2.micro is older generation.
So modinfo ena means that the ENA is installed
on Amazon Linux 2,
but if I type, and I clear my screen,
ethtool -i eth0,
this is going to give me some information
around the driver used for my network interface.
As we can see right now, it doesn't say ENA, it says vif.
But if I go back to my EC2 instances
and now look at my t3.micro and connect to it.
So I will use again EC2 instance connect,
if we type modinfo ena,
same result because we are using Amazon Linux 2
and so the ENA is going to be installed on it
as a module, okay?
But now if I type ethtool -i eth0,
as we can see the driver is ena
and that means that we're using the enhanced networking
that we need on this instance.
So bottom line is to leverage enhanced networking,
you need to have a newer generation type of EC2 instance.
And if you're using Amazon Linux 2,
by default it is going to be enabled.
So that's it for the quick demo.
Now, just to finish,
please make sure to terminate your EC2 t3.micro
to be good to go.
So that's it.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.